title: Blomidon Provincial Park (Nova Scotia)
date: 06-24-2024
---

After an abrupt schedule change last year, we made it to Blomidon Provincial
Park this year for some camping with the kids & friends.

My family thus far has favoured camping in fresh water campgrounds, where
there's typically a beach and lake to swim in. We did not have any real
exceptions for Blomidon. I understood the camp ground is on an (actively
eroding!) cliff, there's no beach like you would find in a lake-front camp
site, and had no concept of amenities, trails, playgrounds. Going with the flow!

The drive to Blomidon is roughly 1 1/2 hours from Halifax, passing near
Wolfville, Port Williams, Canning, and the town of Blomidon before burning some
fuel to climb the hill into the camp ground. Port Williams is a family
favourite for yearly apple picking, we've of course seen Wolfville, but never
made it up to Canning or Blomidon. The region is scenic, with so many farms,
independent retailers, aromas, and a few more details I'll go over in this
post!

First, the camp ground. As mentioned, no expectations. We were camping with
friends who were slightly more familiar (having gone once a few years ago), but
not experts of the space. We decided to book sites 86/87, which were one of the
few "Open Field" sites. Our logic was the kids could run around, play ball, fly
a kite, much more easily.

Upon arrival, seeing our site, we were actually concerned! It felt .. too open?
Our sites were far apart, the field was large, and there was absolutely no
shade. My friend and I toured the rest of the site in our vehicle and went to
the front desk to see if there was availability in a few other sites near the
playground. Alas, no luck.

However, the space grew on us quickly. The sun was not a concern and the site
was a 2 minute walk (or run for the kids) up to the new and lovely playground.
The comfort station adjacent to that, and trails just off to our right. The
open field offered a constant and cooling breeze which felt so nice, regardless of
time of day or mood. This as well removed bugs from the picture, only having to
deal with those during the trails. Finally, there was a privacy benefit due to
the size of the sites. The only campers we heard well were the rambunctious
20-somethings up the hill near the playground. Louder than our neighbours!

<div class="grid">
  <div class="item left">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/field.jpeg">
  </div>
  <div class="item upper_right">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/playground.jpeg">
  </div>
  <div class="item lower_right">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/playground2.jpeg">
  </div>
</div>

Prior to setting up camp, we reviewed the grounds as a family. Kids understood
where the playground was (just up and down the hill), and before we could set
up our tent they were off. For many parts of the day, I did not see my older
child. Off with his friend either at the playground, poking around the bushes,
or in their tent chatting away. Our youngest was able to join the older kid fun
on a regular, but of course required more attention. Overall, the space offered
an independence to the older kids which is an excellent outcome.

When I book again, I may aim for sites closer to playground, perhaps 80-82.
However, the privacy was nice and I may regret losing that. Alternatively,
74/75 as those looked to have great views of the Minas Basin (our site had tree
cover disallowing views)

On the first morning, I went out for a run. The Jodrey Trail cut through our
camp site, starting (literally) below the entrance to the park and continuing
until reaching a terminus near a look-off. The loop from our camp site was just
over 6.5km, with the trail itself being a single track combination of roots,
rocks, and minor slopes. The trail itself was in good shape but lacked
interesting features. Towards the look-off I passed two carved out sections
where you can get views of the basin, and the look-off itself was a great
destination. Later that afternoon we headed down the Jodrey Trail towards the
(low tide) ocean and this was much more interesting. Wildflowers, steep slopes,
curves, and wonderful views of the ocean as you traverse.

The trail connects directly to a well maintained access point to the ocean.
The tide was rising from low now, and we were able to walk along the ocean
floor. It's an experience like no other, to walk towards the line where the
ocean meets earth. The kids immediately noticed the ocean (tide) was "creeping"
up towards them at a constant pace. These being the largest tides on Earth, it
is apparent how quickly it came up! The kids did all sorts of experiments, like
trying to build a dam to prevent the water and standing in place for 10 minutes
and examining how much higher the water was (ankles to past the knees, for the
record).

<div class="grid">
  <div class="item left">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/tide.jpeg">
  </div>
  <div class="item upper_right">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/lookoff.jpeg">
  </div>
  <div class="item lower_right">
    <img src="/static/blomidon/strawberry.jpeg">
  </div>
</div>

We spent a good hour, if not more, on the ocean floor. As the tide continued to
come in we went closer to shore, finding a fresh water fall which the kids
managed to climb without issue, further enhancing their understanding of the
space.

We finished in this space by returning up the Jodrey Trail. Due to the climb,
it was much more of a significant effort but everyone did great, with only one
water stop along the way. After some time the trail dumps you out into an open
field picnic area. To work through this part of the trail (as it lacked the
same interesting features of the rest of it), we identified wild strawberries
along the floor, picking and eating some of the more lovely ones.

After the hike, we had some down time and a few of the family members napped.
Once rested, we headed (in car) to "Look and Lick Ice Cream", at the Blomidon
Look-Off. This was a 15 minute drive from the camp site, and well worth it! The
views were magical, as we attempted to parse the features of each farm plot. But
I think the highlight (especially for me), was the ice cream. Scoops were
large, staff were friendly, and service was efficient. Not too often do I see
a "Small" (two large scoops) cone for $3 these days, so this felt like a time
machine.

As the sun lowered, the wind picked up and the families had several rounds of
the "Just One" card game before calling it a night. The wind rustled our tent
around before calming down near 10pm, capping the night off with a light rain
fall.

I was incredibly pleased with my trip to Blomidon, and I now understand the
joys of ocean-adjacent camping. It's a different vibe, one which offered many
opportunities for relaxation. The kids had a great time and I appreciated the
independence which thrived for them during this trip. I will no doubt be back.

